14. Reliability of Client Initiated Message Exchanges

   DHCP clients are responsible for reliable delivery of messages in the
   client-initiated message exchanges described in sections 17 and 18.
   If a DHCP client fails to receive an expected response from a server,
   the client must retransmit its message.  This section describes the
   retransmission strategy to be used by clients in client-initiated
   message exchanges.

   Note that the procedure described in this section is slightly
   modified when used with the Solicit message.  The modified procedure
   is described in section 17.1.2.

   The client begins the message exchange by transmitting a message to
   the server.  The message exchange terminates when either the client
   successfully receives the appropriate response or responses from a
   server or servers, or when the message exchange is considered to have
   failed according to the retransmission mechanism described below.

   The client retransmission behavior is controlled and described by the
   following variables:

      RT     Retransmission timeout

      IRT    Initial retransmission time

      MRC    Maximum retransmission count

      MRT    Maximum retransmission time

      MRD    Maximum retransmission duration

      RAND   Randomization factor

   With each message transmission or retransmission, the client sets RT
   according to the rules given below.  If RT expires before the message
   exchange terminates, the client recomputes RT and retransmits the
   message.

   Each of the computations of a new RT include a randomization factor
   (RAND), which is a random number chosen with a uniform distribution
   between -0.1 and +0.1.  The randomization factor is included to
   minimize synchronization of messages transmitted by DHCP clients.
   The algorithm for choosing a random number does not need to be
   cryptographically sound.  The algorithm SHOULD produce a different
   sequence of random numbers from each invocation of the DHCP client.

   RT for the first message transmission is based on IRT:

      RT = IRT + RAND*IRT


   RT for each subsequent message transmission is based on the previous
   value of RT:

      RT = 2*RTprev + RAND*RTprev


   MRT specifies an upper bound on the value of RT (disregarding the
   randomization added by the use of RAND). If MRT has a value of 0,
   there is no upper limit on the value of RT. Otherwise:

    if (RT > MRT)
       RT = MRT + RAND*MRT


   MRC specifies an upper bound on the number of times a client may
   retransmit a message.  Unless MRC is zero, the message exchange fails
   once the client has transmitted the message MRC times.

   MRD specifies an upper bound on the length of time a client may
   retransmit a message.  Unless MRD is zero, the message exchange fails
   once MRD seconds have elapsed since the client first transmitted the
   message.

   If both MRC and MRD are non-zero, the message exchange fails whenever
   either of the conditions specified in the previous two paragraphs are
   met.

   If both MRC and MRD are zero, the client continues to transmit the
   message until it receives a response.

